---
title:	"PACTL: Script to control your volume changes"
description: "A simple shell script using pactl to help you keep track of your volume settings"
date: 2020-11-16
categories: "Lil' Scripts"
image:
 path: /images/volctl/blog.png
 caption: Photo by Saso Tusar on unsplash
---

Hello everybody! Today's article is more of a *DIY* how-to tutorial, something I really wanted to share with you. Hope you will find it useful!

# Problem Description
Having a little more free time than usual, I decided to finally implement some *minor* improvements I had planned for my current configuration; you see, I had started getting irritated by the complexity of some actions I found myself repeating often. The **most important** one, among all these little modifications, was setting a keyboard shortcut to my extra keys in my keyboard (those dedicated to volume and music control) in order to avoid using the mouse just to raise the volume by 5% or pause the song I was listening to... I *love* listening to music. It was something that had to be done.


# Solution
After searching the net I decided that the most efficient way of dealing with the problem so that it doesn't waste any more of my time was creating a simple script to take care of it. It could also be an one liner (in fact, its first version, which I have included below, is an oneliner), but I thought that I could use some practice in shell programming.

- The one liner

```bash
# That script takes only one argument -> the percentage by which it is to be modified
# or the volume level that the user chooses
pactl set-sink-volume `pactl list sinks | awk -F# '/Sink/ {print $2}'` $1
```

- A more...fancy solution
 
```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Developed and maintained (xD) by Lamprinos Chatziioannou
# Script used to quickly modify the volume levels

sink=$(pactl list sinks | awk -F# ' /Sink/ {print $2}')

if [ $# -ge  1 ]
then
	for arg in $@
	do
		case $arg in
		# Usage and help flags
			-[u,h]) head -3 /usr/local/bin/volctl
					echo
					;;
		# Percentage values
			[+,-]*%)pactl set-sink-volume $sink $arg	
				echo "Volume modified by $arg"
					;;
			*%)	pactl set-sink-volume $sink $arg
				echo "Volume set to $arg"
					;;
		# Errors
			-*) echo "Unknown flag used"
					;;
			*) echo "Wrong usage, use the -u flag to learn more"
					;;
		esac
	done
fi
```
Feel free to experiment on those two.
You can store them in your path ( `echo $PATH`), make them executable (`chmod +x`) and you're good to go ! If you want to follow my lead and utilize them in keyboard shortcuts then simply add the command you want to the appropriate keybind. A sxhkd article is in the making.

# Understand the script
If you want to gain a better understanding of how this specific script works, study it step by step. I have included comments so that it is even easier to be explained.

